---
title: "Writing is Hard"
date: 2023-09-28T21:26:00-07:00
draft: false
---

As I was trying to think about what I would write today the thought "Writing is hard" came to mind. I am not making excuses or copping out of writing and I would not call this a writer's block.

Anecdotally, it brings to mind one of my General Education (CAT3 or maybe it was CAT125) classes at university. I cannot remember the exact details of the assignment but for one quarter (three months) we had to write 750 words a day. We used either this exact tool or something similar to it https://750words.com/

Even reading the purpose from their website feels nostalgic. For that assignment I remember just mind dumping random stuff and I think that was part of the goal but looking back I know I did not give it a sincere effort.

From their site:
> It's about learning a new habit: Writing. Every. Day.

>I've used the exercise as a great way to think out loud without having to worry about half-formed ideas, random tangents, private stuff, and all the other things in our heads that we often filter out before ever voicing them or writing about them. It's a daily brain dump. Over time, I've found that it's also very helpful as a tool to get thoughts going that have become stuck, or to help get to the bottom of a rotten mood.

>You can't just fart out 3 pages without running into your subconscious a little bit... 750 words takes a bit of effort, and it never fails to get me typing things that I have wanted to articulate without realizing it. And that's the point.

I would say writing on this current platform has accomplished some of what the goals in the aforementioned site lists out. Although I am not seeking to have this blog be a mind dump per se even if it may look like it or read like it at the moment. 

It is completely different to write for leisure versus writing for a class assignment. I have observed this with reading as well.
Within the past year I read the Crazy Rich Asians series and Ender's Game for fun! I remember dragging my feet reading for high school and university coursework or skimming the summaries on SparkNotes (is that still a thing?).

I suppose it comes with the name reading/writing for leisure but when you are not being forced to do it, it makes a big difference. This is coming from an individual who is neither an avid reader nor an avid writer.

At the point where writing here becomes something where I feel like I am pulling my teeth I hope this the blog is being monetized 😂 or I have readers that are invested/interested in the things I write about. 