---
title: "2023 Advent of Code Day 01"
date: 2023-12-02T12:26:39-08:00
draft: false
---

## Advent of Code Year: 2023 Day: 02
[Day 02](https://adventofcode.com/2023/day/2)

### Cube Conundrum

My metrics for this day's puzzle is as follows:

**Part 1 solved in 00:10:11 for Rank 1314**\
**Part 2 solved in 00:15:32 for Rank 1665**

#### Part 1
We are given our input which is a list of configurations for each time the game is played from 1-100. We are interested in games that have configurations have at most `12 red`, `13 green`, and `14 blue` cubes. Each game may have multiple configurations or is `played` multiple times. 
Essentially, we are filtering out games that happen to have counts that exceed the above limits. 

In the below example, Game 1 meets the criteria while Games 3 and 4 exceed it.

Game 1: 3 blue, 4 red; 1 red, 2 green, 6 blue; 2 green\
Game 3: 8 green, 6 blue, 20 red; 5 blue, 4 red, 13 green; 5 green, 1 red\
Game 4: 1 green, 3 red, 6 blue; 3 green, 6 red; 3 green, 15 blue, 14 red

```py
for cube in counts:
    cube = cube.strip()
    if "red" in cube:
        red_c = int(cube.split(" ")[0])
    ...
if red_c > RED_LIM or green_c > GREEN_LIM or blue_c > BLUE_LIM :
    is_valid = False
```

#### Part 2
Part 2 extends on part 1 as we are now asked to find the power of a set a cubes which is equal to the product of the minimum # of cubes needed to play that Game. 

We achieve this by keeping track of the maximum value we have seen for each color for each game. 

```py
max_r, max_g, max_b = 0, 0, 0
for a in cube_sets:
    counts = a.split(",")
    red_c, green_c, blue_c = 0, 0, 0

    for cube in counts:
        cube = cube.strip()
        if "red" in cube:
            red_c = int(cube.split(" ")[0])
            max_r = max(max_r, red_c)
        ...
multi_score += (max_r * max_g * max_b)
```

### Learnings and Takeaways
In my post for Advent of Code Day 16 I mention certains goals that I have when revisiting a year such as brushing up on weak points. All those rules almost go out the window when it comes to participating live in Advent of Code. I was discussing with some friends that I would like to use `regular expressions` for extracting and matching the puzzle input but instead made heavy use of `split` to work with the input. I think it would look cleaner and less hacky/janky and more practical.

I think for the most part I was happy with what I did in the time allotted. Going from part 1 to part 2 did not take as long as Day 1. I believe I made less errors and that helped my mental.